1. What are Primitive Data types in Java?
Ans : Boolean , char , int , float , double , char , short , long , strings


2. What are the Identifiers in Java?
Ans: They are used for identification. These are the names given to classes , variables , methods etc in java. Identifiers consists of letters , digits , underscore , dollar sign.


3. What is final class in Java?
Ans: A final class in java means it cannot be changed , sub-classed and extended.It cannot be inherited by other class.


4. What are the two ways to make a class final?
Ans: There are two ways : 
1. By using final keyword
2. Making all constructors of class private


5. Can we create an instance of final class in another class?
Ans: Yes , we can create and use them as normally only restriction is we cannot inherit or extend them.


6. What is Volatile keyword used for?
Ans: It means its value accessed by multiple threads and can be changes by multiple threads concurrently.


7. What is the use of Transient Keyword?
Ans: It indicates that variable is not serialized when class instance containing the variable is serialized. 


8. What are the types of casting.?
Ans: There are two types of casting in Java:
1. Implicit casting : Automatically done by the compiler , converting a smaller data type to a larger type.
2. Explicit casting : Manually performed by the programmer when converting from a larger data type to a smaller type.


9. What is boxing and unboxing.?
Ans: 
Boxing: The process of converting a primitive type to its corresponding wrapper class (converting int to Integer)
Unboxing: The process of converting a wrapper class object to its corresponding primitive type (converting Integer to int)




10. What is the difference between keywords, identifiers and literals in java?
Ans: 
Keywords :  Reserved words in java , that are know to compiler and cannot used as identifiers.
Identifiers :  Names assigned to classes, variables , methodes , interfaces , etc.
Literals : Fixed value assigned to identifiers.


int  a = 8;
Int - keyword ,  a - identifier , 8 - literals